# Writeup
I created this challenge with two objectives:
<ol>
  <li>Provide a unique experience in OSINT with geospatial techniques</li>
  <li>Reflect the growing use of AI-based image generation tools such as Nano Banana, Sora AI, etc.</li>
</ol>
I expected the final product to be very difficult but solvable within the 72 hour competition period.

## Challenge Walkthrough
We start with a single image, post.png. It shows a "Ghiblified" selfie of the cybercriminal with skiing equipment in a snowy environment and some potentially useful features in the background: a railway crossing, an electric transmission line and pylon, and a mountain. I'll describe the fastest way to geolocate this image: Given that the cybercriminal is from North America and skiing in a snowy environment, it should be possible to start with an initial search scope of the United States and Canada (a quick Google search reveals that Mexico does have skiing, but not enough to be statistically likely and with dissimilar features compared to the image). If you realize this or are still not sure which countries the image could be in, the white "X" railroad crossing sign with a red border narrows the search area down to Canada (U.S. crossing signs are typically white with black text or yellow with black markings). One can then search for "Canadian skiing areas" and reasonably narrow their search to the provinces of Alberta and British Columbia (with notable candidate cities of Banff, Whistler, and Revelstoke). Finding a [map of high-voltage transmission lines](https://www.arcgis.com/apps/mapviewer/index.html?layerId=77&layers=7e2eb22c3813441392ff2617ba4e5c16) and [rail tracks](https://cnebusiness.geomapguide.ca/?MAP=WL) should allow one to eliminate unsuitable locations by checking for matches ([Open Infrastructure Map](https://openinframap.org) and [OpenRailwayMap](https://www.openrailwaymap.org/) provide broader datasets for these objects). Searching for high-voltage (230kV, to be exact) transmission lines parallel to rails near a skiable mountain should eventually yield a match at (50.1278 N, -122.9714 W) on the Valley Trail in Whistler, BC. Exact confirmation is possible by [viewing the location in Google Street View](https://maps.app.goo.gl/6Yu9gFCuewTS1g4E6).

## Notes From the Author
As the walkthrough explains, geolocation is a process of elimination and statistical reasoning. For example, the Canadian rail crossing sign and skiing equipment allows you to eliminate huge amounts of your initial search area. Another line of reasoning that might have helped was noting that the cybercriminal escaped from a Seattle-Tacoma prison, meaning British Columbia would be a solid guess as to his next location. Taking the time to note and research all the points of interest in a photo and the challenge description can save you time later when you're searching for exact matches like this. Another insight is that even without a real visual reference, locations can still be pinpointed using a unique combination of features.
### Post-Competition Comments
This challenge had 8 solves out of 646 teams that solved at least one non-rules challenge, yielding a solve rate of about 1.24%. As you may notice in README.md, I wanted to hint at the railway crossing sign, but hints were not included in the public-facing deployment, meaning that this challenge became harder than intended. The first solve came in around five hours after the CTF started, which was a pleasant surprise. If I were to redo this challenge, I would make the connections to defined geographical areas like British Columbia and Whistler more obvious to reduce the element of guessing. As I learned, authors of CTF challenges (OSINT ones in particular) tend to underestimate the difficulty of their challenges, leading players down costly rabbit holes. However, as this challenge also proved, authors should never underestimate players and their ability to connect the dots. For a good example of a player's perspective, check out [krauq's writeup](https://ctf.krauq.com/scarletctf-2026#so-you-think-youre-good-at-geolocation)